README.md, before:

# Photospline

Detector response to a high-energy physics process is often estimated by Monte
Carlo simulation. For purposes of data analysis, the results of this simulation
are typically stored in large multi-dimensional histograms, which can quickly
become unwieldy in terms of size or numerically problematic due to unfilled
bins or interpolation artifacts. Photospline is a library that uses the
[penalized spline technique](http://dx.doi.org/10.1214/ss/1038425655) to
efficiently compute, store, and evaluate B-spline representations of such
tables.

## Installing

To build the core photospline libraries, you will need:

* [CMake](https://cmake.org) >= 3.1
* A C++11-compliant compiler (e.g. [gcc](https://gcc.gnu.org) >= 4.8.1 or [clang](https://clang.llvm.org) >= 3.3)
* [cfitsio](https://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/fitsio/fitsio.html)

This will allow you to evaluate splines, but not much else. The fitting library further requires:

* [SuiteSparse](http://faculty.cse.tamu.edu/davis/suitesparse.html)
* BLAS and LAPACK libraries (we recommend [OpenBLAS](http://www.openblas.net) on Linux; the built-in Accelerate.framework is fine on OS X)

To build and install in /usr/local, run `cmake . -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local`, followed by `make install`, in the source directory.

## Documentation

A tutorial on fitting spline surfaces with photospline is given in the [sphinx
documentation](docs/source/index.rst). If you have
[sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/),
[doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org/), and
[breate](http://breathe.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) (a sphinx-doxygen bridge),
you can build a pretty-looking HTML version, complete with API documentation,
with `make html`. The output will appear in the build directory under
`docs/index.html`.

## Using photospline in downstream projects

Photospline exports its build configuration for use in downstream projects
that are built with CMake. The files are stored in `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX/share/photospline/cmake`,
so as long as the install prefix is in CMake's prefix path (which you can
specify with [`CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.0/command/find_package.html)), compiling a C++ executable against photospline is as simple as

    find_package(photospline REQUIRED)
    
    add_executable(foo foo.cxx)
    target_link_libraries(foo photospline)
,

or for a C executable,
    
    add_executable(cfoo foo.c)
    target_link_libraries(cfoo cphotospline)
.

This causes the targets `foo` and `cfoo` to be built with the include paths,
compiler options, and link libraries specified when the photospline libraries
were built.

Commit message:

Make configs importable from the build directory

README.md, after:

# Photospline

Detector response to a high-energy physics process is often estimated by Monte
Carlo simulation. For purposes of data analysis, the results of this simulation
are typically stored in large multi-dimensional histograms, which can quickly
become unwieldy in terms of size or numerically problematic due to unfilled
bins or interpolation artifacts. Photospline is a library that uses the
[penalized spline technique](http://dx.doi.org/10.1214/ss/1038425655) to
efficiently compute, store, and evaluate B-spline representations of such
tables.

## Installing

To build the core photospline libraries, you will need:

* [CMake](https://cmake.org) >= 3.1
* A C++11-compliant compiler (e.g. [gcc](https://gcc.gnu.org) >= 4.8.1 or [clang](https://clang.llvm.org) >= 3.3)
* [cfitsio](https://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/fitsio/fitsio.html)

This will allow you to evaluate splines, but not much else. The fitting library further requires:

* [SuiteSparse](http://faculty.cse.tamu.edu/davis/suitesparse.html)
* BLAS and LAPACK libraries (we recommend [OpenBLAS](http://www.openblas.net) on Linux; the built-in Accelerate.framework is fine on OS X)

To build and install in /usr/local, run `cmake . -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local`, followed by `make install`, in the source directory.

## Documentation

A tutorial on fitting spline surfaces with photospline is given in the [sphinx
documentation](docs/source/index.rst). If you have
[sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/),
[doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org/), and
[breate](http://breathe.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) (a sphinx-doxygen bridge),
you can build a pretty-looking HTML version, complete with API documentation,
with `make html`. The output will appear in the build directory under
`docs/index.html`.

## Using photospline in your own project

Photospline exports its build configuration for use in downstream projects
that are built with CMake. Setting up a C++ executable to build again photospline is as simple as putting

    find_package(photospline REQUIRED)
    
    add_executable(foo foo.cxx)
    target_link_libraries(foo photospline)

in your CMakeLists.txt. C executables can be linked to `cphotospline` instead,
e.g.

    add_executable(cfoo foo.c)
    target_link_libraries(cfoo cphotospline)
.

This causes the targets `foo` and `cfoo` to be built with the include paths,
compiler options, and link libraries specified when the photospline libraries
were built.

The export files are installed in `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX/share/photospline/cmake`, so `find_package()` will be able to use them as long as the install prefix is in CMake's prefix path.
If the library was not installed in CMake's prefix path, you can specify another prefix to search with [`CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.0/command/find_package.html)), e.g. `cmake . -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/home/you/software`. You can also import the library from the build directory by specifying the search directory explicitly. e.g. `cmake . -Dphotospline_DIR=/home/you/photospline-v2.0.0/build`.
